if you are in that community good
fucking luck getting out right good luck
the the money that you get other than
welfare is from selling pills you know
everybody's on these pills so you're all
whacked out you don't know what the fuck
is going on half a day you're on opiates
I mean it is a bananas environment and
there's a lot of people like that in
this country for sure
in in poor Latino communities and poor
white communities and poor black
communities the idea that these people
just gonna pull themselves up by their
bootstraps it's crazy I just think they
don't have a plan and I think if we
really want to help them there's got to
be some way where you can give these
people the opportunity to step out of
that pattern whatever that sure
community centers outreach programs
whatever it is I don't know what it did
I mean the truth is the truth is that
historically speaking it was people
actually going to church yeah I mean and
they're made there's a good lot of good
search going person right absolutely
recognize that there's a lot of good
involved and having that framework right
and that that I'm not sure that that's
yeah I don't think you can create sort
of a fake social fabric with just a
government welfare system like it just
it hasn't worked I mean disability
exists increasing every year it's it's
not this is it's a question I asked
Andrew yang actually so our episode
comes out on Sunday and obviously Andrew
is a big fan of ubi you know basic
income and I'm not averse to the idea of
ubi in a future where legitimately 50%
of the population can't work because
they've all been automated out of
existence and all of this but there's
one section in his book where Andrew
talks about how if we cut people a check
for ubi then they will spend their extra
time creating art and engaging in
hobbies that they like and I just
thought to myself I mean I said it to
him like people are on disability I
don't what they're doing right if you're
on disability the people you're talking
about who are suffering they're not out
there write in poetry I mean the the
rise of the opioid epidemic and people
who are OD'ing on drugs and all this
stuff that's in precisely the same
demographic you're talking about you're
just talking about a check from one
place as opposed to another place I
don't I don't really see how that solves
the problem I think we have a crisis of
purpose yes right now and I don't think
that that crisis of purpose is solvable
on the one hand by changing our trade
rules and I also don't think that that
crisis of purpose is saw
by cutting a government check I just
don't think that that's how people are
wired I absolutely agree with you that
there is a crisis of purpose my concern
is about automation and my concern and
obviously I haven't really studied this
other than talking to Andrew yang and
talking to a Elon Musk and a few other
people that are proponents of universal
basic income they think that there's
going to be such a massive loss of jobs
in such a short period of time from
people that are non skilled laborers and
it's gonna go away there's millions and
millions of jobs and these people are
not gonna have anything and that it
could be chaos right so there's there's
two problems that come up there and this
is where Andrews book is interesting
because problem number one is that the
people will be poor they won't have a
source of income ubi solves that the
other sort of but does it even that
gives him $1,000 a month if you have did
right I mean even though even if you
just had a Swedish redistribution system
and and the average tax rate when I was
a 60% or something it might let's say we
could solve the money problem for a
second which you know without tanking
the economy which was questionable but
let's say we could do that we could add
trillions of dollars to the budget every
year and we could solve that I'm still
not sure that that solves the deeper
problem which is that when people lose
jobs they lose purpose yes right so I'm
not sure that ubi solves that problem as
I say we have we have a rich social
welfare network in the United States and
we're seeing this stuff happen anyway
you know I'm a little bit I'm a little
bit less catastrophic by a little bit I
mean a fair bit less catastrophic and my
thinking about automation then then
either Andrew yang or you London I think
that people will be able to adapt quick
enough to avoid the problems they'll
realize the jobs aren't there anymore
and they'll just naturally gravitate
towards other profession I think over
time that people will do that but
they're not always the same people well
there's always shift in the economy and
the the ideal economic model has a truck
or becoming a coder right but that's
that's not read that was that whole
learn to code Fiasco got people kicked
off of Twitter right yeah apparently if
you say to journalists then that's
that's very bad if you say those truck
yeah that's what it was
that's learn to crow do a trucker if you
say learn to code to a trucker then
that's just you being helpful right if
you say learn to code to a journalist
then that is targeted harassment on
Twitter that's what this is it to me
well I don't care about you I can say
whatever but it's but yeah I mean I
think that but if you just say it's a
friend hey fuckface learn to code
I don't know how to report you to the
it's such a dumb thing to take people
out for it's one of the best examples of
like how censorship step over steps its
boundaries in becomes almost like satire
yeah it's Israel it's really really like
this is the biggest aggression ever
learn to code later code like if that's
something look this is a stupid thing
that someone said about coal miners they
really said that about coal miners it
maybe they can learn to code and so
everybody there what the fuck and so
learn to code became a joke and became
something that you would mock people
right there is their explanation for it
was so crazy it was like no then learned
to code got connected with okay premises
are bad they used the phrase learn to
code that means if you say learn to code
you're a white supremacist look what he
lost the frog that fucking frog that
feels good man the frog they turned the
freakin frog gay I mean what yeah yeah
as far as automation you know there's
constantly people saying this is the the
Nicolas Nassim Taleb view of reality
which that the Black Swan incident can
happen any any second so watch out for
it versus the sort of Steven Pinker view
of reality which is the black swan
incident is called a Black Swan incident
because it's a Black Swan incident
meaning that it happens incredibly
rarely you know the the idea that we are
on the verge of a catastrophic drop in
job numbers because of the automation of
trucking for example I'm not sure that I
buy it
the reason I don't buy it is because you
still are gonna need someone sitting
behind the wheel of that truck there are
human drivers on the road it's gonna
there will be a gradual transition away
from some of these jobs with the Andrew
yang talks about radiologists and how
radiologists are gonna be priced out of
the market by computers they can do a
better job of diagnosing tumors first of
all awesome right I mean that's that's
good
first of all that brings down cost and
you won't get cancer as advanced that
would be a good thing
and then second of all what what a lot
of Technology studies have tended to
show is that technology just gets
integrated in a different way in
particular career so there will be jobs
that are eliminated for sure there will
be jobs we haven't heard of that will be
created also and mostly technology will
will become more of a productivity aid
to to people so
this is true in factories jobs and lost
in factories the best example of where
jobs are lost but it's mostly true in
offices right how many office jobs have
been created because you have computers
what's the War Office jobs exist because
I write by hand do you think that this
is a Kindle like a government bailout
like the idea of the government bailout
was like the banks are too big to fail
and some people thought you know what
you got to let them fail so you figure
out why they failed and will never have
it happen again if there is this thing
and the government steps in and says
wait a minute I know you lost all your
jobs are gonna give you $1,000 you don't
have to figure it out
$1,000 a month and some people go okay
I'm not gonna figure it out now whereas
those people might have gone on a fear
filled journey to try to figure out
their purpose in life because now
they're stuck where their job doesn't
exist anymore so they're put in order I
mean they have to act there is there is
innovation that comes from from a
welfare check I mean there are people
who become dependent on government then
there used to be I mean that stuff is
true it does happen and listen Milton
Friedman made an argument for a
universal basic income as a replacement
for the welfare system there is another
problem with universal basic income that
I asked Andrew about also and that was
you know one of the one of the big
issues is that poor people very often
people who are permanently impoverished
not people who are temporarily poor but
they tend not to spend money where we
think they ought to spend money they're
not taking that money and they're not
putting it into education or into the
mattress pillows and cigarettes right I
mean the average the average person who
is making less than I think is $16,000 a
year spending four hundred dollars here
in lottery tickets right Madison
legitimately just flushing your money
down the toilet so it's so how do you
aren't you just gonna end up back in the
same place you know in six months where
people took that money and used it in
ways that actually didn't benefit them
and at a certain point the question is
are you do you own your decisions you do
not own your decisions and at what level
of incompetence or inability do we say
you no longer own your decisions and so
we're just gonna take care of you on a
permanent basis that's that's really the
the question here I think we're looking
at when you're talking about welfare
we're looking at worst case scenario
right where someone does get dependent
upon the welfare state and does use that
money frivolously and does make poor
decisions but then there's got to be
other people that are single moms that
you know maybe
had a kid with some fucking asshole that
doesn't want to pay and yeah it's a
piece of shit and they have to hide from
them and they're just trying to feed
their kids yeah first those people exist
200 have a community to help them out
maybe they're not a part of a church and
maybe they don't have a good group of
neighbors maybe they had to move
somewhere for work and they got stuck in
some place where they don't know anybody
but I think part of this is to recognize
that incentives matter on both ends so
the idea is that you give some people
more money and they'll they'll do well
it's also true that if you create a
welfare system that benefits single
motherhood you will get more single
motherhood I mean the the single
motherhood rate in the black community
before welfare was 20 percent now it's
70 percent in the white community was
like five percent now it's forty person
you've said that like out of wedlock
children and having a kid when you're
young is like it's a terrible idea for
your life but what do you recommend to
have kids avoid that are you one of
those people that think they're without
that thing on it no condom since we're
saying right like don't don't don't
don't have unprotected sex I mean like
this this is not it's not part of my my
fake cursing it's not effing rocket
science I mean like kids make mistakes I
mean that's what happens okay but and
then if the government pays for those
mistakes it becomes less so what should
what should happen should the kids
suffer no I mean presented it'd be I
mean actually be worked out I mean it
depends on the situation you know you
know if there are parents available to
the kid presumably the parents the
grandparents would take a pretty active
role in the in the raising difficut also
they're there well how about this how
about we assume that if you are old
enough to get pregnant then you're old
enough to let's let's talk about
seventeen year old or 18 year old used
to be shotgun marriages were thing
that's a good idea I think the idea of
parents staying together for the sake of
a kid that they accidentally bore is
absolutely a good idea yes I think that
I think that is a better idea than the
man walking away and the kid being
without a man in the house so you figure
a way to work it out yes and if they
were both reasonable they could do that